---
layout: post
title:  "Wednesday"
date:  "2020-01-22"
author: me
---

The red super giant problem. WFIRST detector persitence.

<!--more-->

Today coffee was mostly centered around the red supergiant (RSG) problem. In short, the luminosity function of detected Type II supernovae progenitors does not reflect that observed for all RSGs (see Smartt 2009?), especially to the more luminous (and thus more massive) end of the distribution. If we have not seen enough high-mass SNe progenitors, where could they be? Kochanek et al. (including me) are on the side of failed SNe, ones that collapse into a black hole without a detectable optical transient. Alternatively, there could be some bias in the observations, which the papers today were mostly on. There was aso one about a change in the mass loss prescription for high mass stars, which I will want to read more about. 

I spoke to Matthew Penny (LSU), which was productive. talked about the Galactic model.I need to check if the Marshall 2006 extinction maps are cummulative. Also need to figure out the impact of persistence on the WFIRST detectors. I think the way we are going to figure this is to determine the distribution of persistence across some sample images, then find what fraction of pixels will have significant persitence in measuring the baseline flux of events. This could tell us the impact, but I feel like there might be an area argument (fraction of area with significant persistence, which may be the same as the 1D case). I just need one the error distribution as a function of W149 before moving forward on that.
